---
categories: [toby]
date: 2018-08-14T23:36:34-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=2004'
id: 2004
modified: 2018-08-14T23:41:58-04:00
name: '2004'
tags: [animal, care, dog, poop, sleep]
---

Post 2004
=========

I dog-sat for my parents and brother for a few days.<!--more-->  This was the first time dog-sitting at my current house.

Chester and Jack stayed over for three nights.  I got awoken around 5-6 AM each night to let them out, and woke a little earlier than usual each morning.  I had to sleep at angles to fit with them on the bed sometimes.  But overall I slept reasonably well.

Jack wouldn't stay in my yard, so I put him on a leash every time we went out after the first.  It made it a lot less convenient for all of us.  If I ever get a dog, I'll want a fence, or a dog that listens as good as Chester.  Chester didn't really want to spend much time outside at all, well Jack wanted to explore farther than I would let him on his leash.

I had to do some poop-scooping before mowing the lawn.  I'm used to it from my previous living accommodations though.  They didn't poop a lot, and did a few times in the woods behind my house, so it wasn't too bad.

They were lazy and not very needy, which was nice.  They lay on the couch or bed most of the time as long as I was nearby.  They would sometimes follow me around the house if I went elsewhere though.

I didn't get a lot done while they were here.  I did some stuff around the house, but was reluctant to go out if I didn't have to.  I even considered working from home, but wouldn't have been able to due to a particular project.

It did get a little lonely after they left.
