---
categories: [toby]
date: 2016-12-24T05:40:46-05:00
date_gmt: 2016-12-24T10:40:46+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=1318'
id: 1318
modified: 2016-12-24T05:46:20-05:00
modified_gmt: 2016-12-24T10:46:20+00:00
name: '1318'
tags: [cook, dream, job, nightmare, winkinglizard]
---

Almost 7 years later and I still occasionally have dreams about working at the [Winking Lizard](http://www.winkinglizard.com/).  I just awoke from one where I had gone back, first day.<!--more-->  Right at the beginning of my shift, I was told to go on break.  I was making a meatball sub, trying to remember how to make them (in reality, I don't remember the Lizard having meatball subs).  I asked Pyrka (kitchen manager) if I had it right.  Before I finished making it, Scott (also kitchen manager, working the grill), looked at me and said "Oh, shit…".  I looked at him and could tell it was getting busy back there, asked something like "Need me back there?", and he nodded.  I finished preparing my food, didn't take a bite, put it in a fridge for break food (this didn't exist while I was there, was where the ice machine was).  Wondered if someone was going to eat my sub, and if I was going to be able to get a real break later.  Went back to the kitchen, saw the salad station (back by the pizza station) had a lot of tickets and the cook there (Kristen Bickel I think) was in the weeds on the pizza station.  I glanced at it, determined she was doing well enough there, then started pulling tickets from the end of a long string at salads.  They were all reading weird things like "Viewfinder" and some computery sounding gobbledygook.  I pulled more and more, wondering if it was just some messages from some printer procedure, hoping I would get to real tickets soon, but I didn't.  The string of tickets attached to the printer was super long and getting longer.  I woke up just as I was preparing to ask what was going on with the printer.
