---
categories: [computer, toby]
date: 2024-02-28T00:17:10-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4263'
id: 4263
modified: 2024-02-28T00:17:54-05:00
name: '4263'
tags: [account, book, boox, ereader, google, library]
---

I've had a single GMail account for over a decade.  I've thought of creating a second one for many years to use for lower security sitations.  Today I finally did, to install Google Play, and thus other apps, on my Onyx Boox e-note.<!--more-->  In particular, I was trying to install Libby so I could borrow e-books from my library and read *Lord of the Flies*.

I don't trust Boox enough to give them credentials for my main Google account, especially since their devices aren't Google certified.  I had to do a little dance of entering my credentials, connecting some ID, opening Google Play, clearing some caches / app data, and trying again a few times until it finally worked.

So I finally got Libby installed, was able to connect to my library account, and then "checked out" my book.  I hadn't read *Lord of the Flies* since I was a kid, but it has popped up several times in my life since then, including once when I confused it for *The Jungle* in front of a whole college class, making me want to revisit it.  Finally got around to it.

Anyway, I now have an account that I won't use for important things.  I can use it for Google Play on untrusted devices.  I can use the GMail for unimportant mail lists or other situations where I don't want to give out my normal address.  I can also use the GMail for testing purposes in web development.
