---
categories: [toby]
date: 2023-09-26T23:32:37-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4151'
id: 4151
modified: 2023-09-26T23:32:37-04:00
name: '4151'
tags: [health, problem, sick]
---

Last week I got pretty sick for a few days, a bad cold perhaps.<!--more-->  I woke up in the middle of the night with a bad sore throat and struggled to get much sleep that night, or the next two.  My throat transitioned to a cough, the kind the hurts the abdomen after a while, and congestion, tons of snot.

I took a few covid tests, all negative.  I still isolated at home to make sure I didn't spread it to anyone.

I did the classic sick day, watching lots of TV and movies.  I clocked in to work from home and checked on things but didn't do much.  I drank a lot of tea as well as Body Armor (electrolyte drink) and water.  I ate more soup and fruit than usual.  I sat out in the sun as much as I could when the sun came out.  I sat and relaxed or lay down most of the time.  I did take an evening walk each day just to make sure I got some exercise.

Finally, it faded to a more normal cold, though still occasional bad coughs and lots of snot.  I rejoined society, visiting my parents for dinner.  I had some anxiety going over there, kind of the worst in a little while, and reminding me of how hard it can be to control sometimes.  I will have to remember that and be careful when I have to isolate due to sickness in the future.

I went back to the office on Friday and have went mostly back to normal this week.  I still have a cough and snot.  My sleep schedule got knocked out of whack by those three days.  I've slept a lot most nights since and have even had a problem napping.  Hopefully I'll get it back on track.
