---
categories: [toby]
date: 2016-07-07T23:37:30-05:00
date_gmt: 2016-07-08T04:37:30+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=1180'
id: 1180
modified: 2020-03-08T03:08:29-04:00
modified_gmt: 2020-03-08T07:08:29+00:00
name: '1180'
tags: [book, classical, fireworks, holiday, independenceday, music, orchestra, reading, sciencefiction, weekend]
---

This past weekend of three days was dominated by two things:  reading of *Dune* and Independence Day events.<!--more-->  I was reading *Dune* slowly at the library after work, but since I've taken it home, my reading has sped up dramatically.  I have a habit of getting enthralled by good novels and spending a lot of time reading them, at the expense of other things.  I read for many hours and several hundred pages of *Dune* over the weekend, and that was purposely trying to limit my reading.  I like sci-fi and it is a good book so far.

To celebrate Independence Day, I went with my brother and his girlfriend the day before to see the Cleveland Orchestra's [*1812 Overture* concert at blossom](http://www.clevelandorchestra.com/16-blossom--summer/16-blossom-festival---concerts/2016-07-03-1812-overture/?performanceNumber=14422).  They performed the *1812 Overture* and two other Russian pieces.  They were varied and I liked them.  One was a somewhat jazzy piece that was a number of somewhat different movements.  Afterward, there was a fireworks display that was also good, and we had a better view than last year.

The following day, we went to my parents for lunch.  We had some tasty burgers and pulled-pork sandwiches with corn, beans, and a cucumber-salad (which I didn't eat).  I ate a bit too much and was very satiated.  I didn't go to any fireworks on the 4th, but there were plenty going off in my neighborhood.  Between 2100 and 2200, it sounded kind of like a battlefield outside, with booms and whistling fairly continuously in all directions.  There were some pretty large fireworks visible over houses and trees, including some from neighbors a few houses down.  When they fired theirs, I could hear the loud sound of it shooting from the ground.  Over a longer span, there were occasional fireworks starting at least on Thursday night and going until late Monday, maybe a couple the following day.
