---
categories: [toby]
date: 2023-08-06T15:23:17-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4111'
id: 4111
modified: 2023-08-06T15:23:17-04:00
name: '4111'
tags: [baseball, guardians, sports]
---

I went to the Guardians game Friday with my brother.  It was overall a good night, competitive but the team won.  Generally pleasant weather if a little hot.

<!--more-->

I had a burger and then some rainbow dippin dots.  I had wanted dippin dots on my recent visit to the zoo, but they had closed before I finally decided to go for them.  They were good enough, but cost $10 for the medium size and were quite pricey for what they were.  They also were melting by the end because of the heat.

The game was notable because the umpires overturned an originally correct safe call at the plate for a double run by Rochio to out on review.  It was overturned because the umpire didn't originally call the fact that Rochio's hand was pushed off the plate by the other team.  Since he didn't, the review wasn't able to take that into account.  Seems stupid to me.  And the crowd let the umps know of their dissatisfaction, booing as loudly as a playoff game.  They also cheered when Tito got ejected, and chanted his name when he went on to give the other ump an earful after that.  Glad they won in spite of this.

The fireworks show after was unique for me.  They had less fireworks, more focus on the music.  There was either a music video or wavy colors with lyrics for each song on the main screen.  There were more frequent bursts of fire from the bleachers.  The girls who normally throw t-shirts and stuff had the fans wave their phone flashlights for one song.  There were two guys with video cameras on the dugouts filming fans and the fireworks.  And most notably, sometimes they'd shoot off fireworks from all around the stadium, which looked cool when looking straight up.

Presumably due to the fireworks, they closed off the main exits, pushing everyone through the one gate at the back.  There was a huge mash of people in the concourse.  We started going toward the main exit, but so many people were going the other way that it was rough going and we gave up.  Everyone slowly waddled forward mashed close together, occasionally bumping into each other.  It was stressful and I would've rather sat at the seats and waited, but once we were in, there was no getting out aside from getting to the gates.

When I came in, my usual Wolstein center parking was closed to the public for some event, so, as I wondered where to park, I ended up parking on a side street on the other side for free.  My brother had shown me that once before.  It's nice if spots are available, if a little more worrying about break-ins.
