I have both too much and not all that I want.  I have just the right amount for right now.  I want contentment bordering on happiness, time, relative comfort, health, connection, peace, life, purpose.  I want these for everyone.  I want these for the world and the universe.

I want to watch the birds and other animals.  I want to sip tasty tea.  I want to build things on my computer and in my house.  I want to play fun games.  I want to eat tasty food.  I want to read a good book, watch a good movie or show, listen to good music.  I want to walk, take in nature, take in the sun.  I want to grow nice plants in my garden.  I want to occasionally go camping.  I want to talk with people who I connect with.  I want to watch and feel beauty.

I want to write good, open source software that is useful to some, easy to use, and trustable.  I want a website built on such software that provides information useful to some.  I want that information to be easy to add to or change by myself, on a system that can outlive me and my ability to pay for a domain name and host.

I want a good computer system with software and internet connection that can manage my purposes.  I want a good house that can keep me warm, protect me and my stuff, allow me to do what I need, and be manageable.  I want a car that can take me and my stuff around, provide a portable house if needed, and be manageable.  I want a bed and bedding, food and water, cooking and eating items, clothes, toilet, bathing items, furniture, lights, music player, musical instruments, books, media, TV, air filter, furnace, windows, and anything else needed to live my life as I want it.
