I was in a band in the early to mid aughts in Kent, Ohio called The Yars.  It was composed of me (drums), Dwight (guitar), Rockwood (bass), and for a period, Dusty (vocals).  It was the continuation of a band me and Dwight had started our freshman year of college called Awesome Possum.  We brought in Rockwood via an ad for a fuller richer sound and renamed, eventually settling on a name based on one of Dwight's favorite video games, Yars Revenge.

We played rockish punkish type music, mostly written by Dwight.  We recorded a few short albums and played a number of shows around Kent.  For a period, we had weekly or repeated gigs at the ECC, Club Khameleon, and Europe Gyro.  We played shows with various bands, some repeatedly, including Mario Speedwagon, Double Barrel, and The Living Daylights.  We also played at least a show with Kill the Hippies, Parsley Flakes, and Crack Your Fucking Skull, among many others.

We did not make much money at all from the venture.  I was able to buy a new high-hat stand, sticks, heads, and the like with the money, but it was no doubt a net loss overall.

I left the band a little while after having moved to Boston Township.  They went on to get another few drummers and another bassist, continuing to play Kent for another several years.  They made a more [full-length album](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B001SS5076/ref=sr_1_12?crid=107CSY50GK9OA&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.XaZk0ayWGkwEwqzn692PNixhnfL7Rt8M_Q4vrpYkh3mTGX1KTo-vr1a9S8_xY6oJgdyxK1Qb41_ma5Pk8xgvZAGI-P6FzE9O1CFWsw5kysL9USIvWD3y4Rk-AS_aYe2ENrhh89-10-pKQG41vMd_Ew5CVq8bIc60sH3UUy2YO0I1cWGOuoN7kfdEP3I7qaEU88qHo_Sr-gMUVRv6iowoqw92-IFoygtVpt_1lwn4tPs._EkdMXBsUoyKG4dj014h7CdgVy9QF0yRr07hcXSnBVk&dib_tag=se&qid=1708405737&sprefix=the%20yars%20bitterswee,aps,151) that I helped build a web-site to embed on the album for.  They had a more hard, metally sound than in my day.  They sort of fell apart during the production of that album, but did eventually get it up on iTunes and the like.

The band was one of the main social things I did during those college years and have many good memories from the time.  Being shy, I also had problems with it, with being on stage, meeting other bands, and all the other social stuff involved.
