---
categories: [toby]
date: 2024-09-02T22:59:26-04:00
date_gmt: 2024-09-03T02:59:26+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4435'
id: 4435
modified: 2024-09-02T22:59:26-04:00
modified_gmt: 2024-09-03T02:59:26+00:00
name: '4435'
tags: [dwight, hike, visit]
---

My friend Dwight and wife Grace came up from Texas to visit last week.<!--more-->  We hung out three times, sometimes with Scott and Matt.  We ate at some restaurants, played some games, and went on a hike.

Dwight and Grace or now vegan / vegetarian, so that limited the restaurants we could go to.  One day we went to a Mediterranean place by UAkron that sort of had a hookah lounge / dance club decor and was pretty slow on the food.  We went to The Soulful Vegan in the valley, which had tasty but expensive burgers and was somewhat slow due to workers having called off.  We else went to BeerNChick, which ended up being an hour wait between waiting in line to order and waiting for our food.  I hadn't been to any of the places before.

We played the history game Timeline one day.  I won one of two games.  Another day we played some You Don't Know Jack family games, which has become somewhat of a tradition with us.  We also played this Nintendo game that was time trials of short parts of NES Nintendo brand games for a little bit.

Our hike was to and around Brandywine falls.  It was hot so we were all sweating pretty good by the end, but it was good exercise.  The falls and the forest scenery were quite nice.  I got bit by something at some point that was really itchy later, possibly ticks.

There was also plenty of talking as usual, including some political and music discussions.  Luckily, nothing got to the point of yelling as happened last year.
