---
categories: [toby]
date: 2019-02-24T15:20:23-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=2229'
id: 2229
modified: 2019-02-24T15:20:23-05:00
name: '2229'
tags: [bill, storage, stuff]
---

It feels good to finally be out of my storage unit. It feels good to be saving almost $100 a month and to no longer have my stuff spread to another location.

<!--more-->

I got a unit about 6 years ago to allow me to quickly move out of my mobile home and store stuff for which there was little room at my new abode.  I had wanted to go through it over time and get rid of most of it, but that never happened.  When I bought my house, basement and garage space for this stuff was something I looked for.

The unit had started at a reasonably cheap $58 a month before taxes.  The rate raised every year, usually by $3-5.  This year, though, it went up $15, reaching almost $100 with taxes.  That was enough motivation to finally move it to that open space in my house.

Every weekend for the past maybe 6 weeks, I went over there and brought one carload home, except one week where my dad came with a second car to help me move some shelves.  Yesterday, I picked up the final load and then swept out the place.  It was really dusty and I had to step outside a number of times.  I spent an hour or more, including sweeping the walls and doors, to be sure they wouldn't charge me some cleaning fee.

I didn't review or go through the stuff to a significant degree as I moved it:  I just took it from one place to the other.  So now I have a mess of stuff in my basement and garage.  It got dusty and even a bit moldy in storage, so I will have to do some cleaning.  I will go through it slowly over time to get rid of or put where it belongs, as I intended when it was in my storage unit.  At least now it is right there for me to work on at any time.

I have way too much stuff.  I've already mentally marked a ton of it to get rid of, but I'm not sure what to do with much of it that isn't putting it in a landfill.  That's the hard part, but I shall work through it.
