---
categories: [toby]
date: 2021-11-25T23:25:01-05:00
date_gmt: 2021-11-26T04:25:01+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=3561'
id: 3561
modified: 2021-11-25T23:25:20-05:00
modified_gmt: 2021-11-26T04:25:20+00:00
name: '3561'
tags: [dessert, family, food, holiday, thanksgiving]
---

Happy Thanksgiving.  It was a good day with good food.

<!--more-->

I took a long walk around the neighborhood in the morning.  It was fairly warm for the season, though wet.  It was barely drizzling when I left, but turned into a light right on my way home.  Not enough to soak me but enough to get me wet.

Much of my day was spent preparing a cheesecake, the same [one I made last year](/blog/2020/12/15/3170/), a cinnamon roll cheesecake.  It has four separate parts to make and has a really long cook + cool down time, so I finished later than I had wanted.  I rushed the cooling, resulting in some cracks.  I also felt pretty worn out.  I accidentally put too much flour in the main part:  It called for three tablespoons but for some reason I thought it was to be one cup.  I fished out a little more than a half cup.  The end result was definitely not as good as last year, but still good.  I didn't use as high quality of cream cheese, and I think the taste of the extra flour was a bit too strong.  Others liked the cake though.

We had a five person dinner at my parents' house.  They did much of the cooking before I arrived, but I helped on some things when I got there.  The dressing took longer than expected and had to be microwaved to finish.  Everything turned out very good.  Usual fare: turkey, gravy, mashed potatoes, corn, stuffing / dressing, brussels sprouts, rolls.  I ate a lot and could've eaten more except I had to leave room for dessert.  We drank some Fiji water, since some guy said that paired best with turkey.  I felt less worn out after sitting and eating.

We watched some football.  I didn't have any interest in either team, but it was a close game that went into overtime, making it a little more interesting.

The night before, I helped my parents prepare some chestnuts for the stuffing.  They cut them, boil them, then peel them.  They got some new tools to help this year.  I used one of them to help scrape the peels off without burning my hands.  Some of them came off easy but some required repeated scraping for each little bit.  They're a lot of work but make for a tasty stuffing.
