---
categories: [toby]
date: 2022-12-23T23:18:21-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=3918'
id: 3918
modified: 2022-12-23T23:18:21-05:00
name: '3918'
tags: [bird, cold, snow, weather, wind]
---

Very cold and windy today.  Woke up with it around 8 degrees and it just went down from there.  -1 was the coldest I saw on a thermometer.

Snow on the ground, not a lot except in drifts.  Not enough to shovel but enough for several plow visits.

<!--more-->

The birds were doing a lot of eating, but were struggling with the wind.  They'd sometimes try to fly toward the food but a gust would send them the other direction.  In gusts they sometimes had to cling to the perches.

My walks were very cold, and I didn't go the full distance.  My boots aren't operational, so my feet got a bit cold.  Otherwise, I really bundled up.  Leg warmers, pants, and snow pants.  I wore a second pair of leg warmers for my later walk, since the one wasn't enough.  Upper body had t-shirt, long-sleeve, fleece vest, hoodie, and down coat, with the lower layers tucked into the pants.  And I had two neck gaiters and two hats, including a "trapper" hat.  In addition to my feet, my eyes got a bit cold, and my eyelashes kept freezing.  Breeze was biting and sometimes hard to walk in.

My parents' have some high windows upstairs, and two of them were slightly ajar.  I helped my dad get them closed.  The bottom part of the pane is separating from the glass, pressing against the wood frame, so I had to pry the one closed with a screw driver, pulling on the separated lip of the pane.  Felt much warmer up there after.

My car's windows were fairly iced up and took me quite a while to scrape.  Windshield kept fogging up so I had to keep on switching to the defroster vents, but they were obviously cold.  Roads were mostly snow covered and a bit slick this evening.  I had some wheel slip on occasion but nothing that took me off track.  I drove slowly and probably more cautiously than I had to.  Not a lot of traffic.

Luckily no problems with power outage or furnace issues.
