---
categories: [toby]
date: 2026-02-13T23:55:27-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4775'
id: 4775
image: 2026/02/20260210_112121.jpg
image_alt: 'leg sticking in snow, facing shallow footprints faded by the wind'
modified: 2026-02-13T23:55:27-05:00
name: '4775'
tags: [snow, weather, winter]
---

For a couple weeks there it didn't get above freezing and there was some fairly deep snow on the ground and sidewalks.  I had to tromp through it even just walking through the neighborhood, as some people never shoveled the sidewalks.<!--more-->  On the loop at Hardesty Park, about a quarter of it I'm pretty sure I was the only person who tromped through it.  It was deep in spots as the wind had evened the snow over varied ground.  Tromping through snow is much more tiring than normal walking, so I felt much more worn after my daily walks.

Many of the days went into single digits F, even negative in the nights.  Quite cold, cold enough that my eyelashes would start to freeze on my walks.  My knees would sometimes hurt just from the cold.  They cancelled school and other stuff some days.

Recently, we got a few days going above freezing, including one that was almost spring-like.  Sun too.  Finally got some melt-off.  Of course, with temps swinging low at night, that led to ice.  But that is melting away too.  More of the sidewalks are clear, and the denser snow on the parts that aren't is generally easier to walk on.

A lot more potholes have appeared on the roads now.  Some areas have water from the melt-off and are getting that look like when a water main breaks and flows across the road for a while.  Hopefully they can get around to hot-patching the bad areas soon.

I'm sure we'll get some more snow before real spring.
