---
categories: [toby]
date: 2025-05-21T23:14:53-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4567'
id: 4567
modified: 2025-05-21T23:15:16-04:00
name: '4567'
tags: [book, expanse, sciencefiction, series, story]
---

I have read the last novel in the Expanse series, *Leviathan Falls*.  It was good, and so was the series.  Perhaps it's recency bias, but I'd say it's my favorite book series.<!--more-->  I've also watched the six seasons of the show, which were very good too.  I found the whole pre-protomolecule world very interesting and plausible as an eventuality of our reality.  Between the show and the book, it put a lot of thought into the language, socio-political situation, economic situation, space flight, military situation, etc., including the science and psychology of it all.  I would've found fictional world staying in that setup to be quite compelling.  But adding the protomolecule, etc was also quite interesting and allowed exploring a lot of different ideas and themes that couldn't easily be explored otherwise.  It touched on a lot of themes of muddied ethics in complicated situations, power, politics, groups of people, trying to live life in difficult situations.

I'm glad to have read the novels and still have most of the novellas to read.  As it happens, my book club is doing the first novel of the series, *Leviathan Wakes*, for next month, so I'm going to have to reread that.  It will be interesting to do so right after finishing the last.  I had been planning to read book nine and finish the series before I knew that book one was on the docket, had been kinda craving it during the previous month, but seeing that made me want to finish even more.
