---
categories: [toby]
date: 2022-08-15T10:22:29-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=3793'
id: 3793
modified: 2022-08-15T10:23:02-04:00
name: '3793'
tags: [game]
---

I've finally broken my streak in Wordle, at 195.  Not because I didn't get the word, but because I got it after midnight.  Three minutes.

<!--more-->

I had "_HA__" after two attempts at lunch time.  I had remove the "C", "S", and "T", leaving few letters that commonly combine with "H".  I couldn't think of anything, so I let it sit, and must've gotten distracted by the birds and nice weather.  I forgot about it completely until 2345.  I wasn't sure what would happen if I went past midnight, but I wanted to get it done, and felt rushed.

I tried a number of non-words, just entering random remaining letters that would be valid, but found none.  With no valid guesses, I finally gave in and tried several words to add or eliminate letters.  I ended up with an "I" in the wrong place on guess four.  Midnight was fast approaching, but I couldn't think of another word that made good use of the letters I had left.  Midnight passed.  I finally gave in and threw in a word that eliminated a few more letters at least and verified "I" at the end.  For some reason, a valid guess suddenly came to me, and I entered it: "KHAKI".  Success in 6.

I got it, but when the stats popped up, it showed streak of 1, next puzzle in 23:56….  Hoping that it was just a glitch due to the late finish, I waited until this morning to refresh and do the next one.  It let me do it, and I got it in 5.  However, it still showed a streak of 1.  So essentially me finish of yesterday's didn't count.  Max streak forever 195, or at least for a very long time.

I might as well share my stats up until now:

- Played: 196
- Win %: 100
- Current Streak: 1
- Max Streak: 195
- 1: 0
- 2: 11
- 3: 48
- 4: 83
- 5: 37
- 6: 17

So, still looking good, except that Current Streak.
