---
categories: [toby]
date: 2025-12-16T01:11:09-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4723'
id: 4723
modified: 2025-12-16T01:11:57-05:00
name: '4723'
tags: [car, furnace, plumbing, problem, snow]
---

The end of last week proved to be somewhat troublesome for me, with extra work and annoying problems…

<!--more-->

I was dog sitting by myself for several days, so I had to be there for Duncan much of the time and walk him quite a bit.  He wanted to go out even when it got very cold and snowy and seemed to want to go long distances in the new neighborhood around my house, even when I was just trying to take him for a pee in the back yard.  I walked a lot the one day.

My furnace did its misbehavior thing twice, where it just won't get past the first stage of startup and thus won't heat the house.  I cleaned out the hoses and trap the one time and was able to get it going the first time.  But then after a while it happened again and cleaning didn't help.  My house got down to about 68F and I had to leave.  So I left the furnace going (it retries the startup every once in a while when it's in this state), shut off the water, set my two electric heaters going, and heat up some pots and buckets of water strategically placed.  I left it like this for over 24 hours as I went to my parents house for Duncan and then to work.  Luckily, by the time I got back, the furnace had resolved its issue through cycling and was back up to temperature.

However, I heard some water trickling.  I found my second toilet, which I rarely use, was running continuously.  I went down to the basement to shut it off and noticed water dripping through the ceiling.  So I went back up and found that the toilet was running because water was dripping out through a rotted away gasket for the bolts at the bottom of the tank.  So I drained the tank and, because that valve doesn't shut 100% anymore, I had to prop the float valve up to stop it from there.  I also put a jar under the bolt to catch any more dripping through my floor.  Later, when I had more time, I was able to find a new gasket in a box of mixed bathroom gaskets I had bought previously and get it properly stopped.

Over the weekend, it snowed quite a bit and got quite cold, in the low teens F.  I had to shovel my drive a few times, as well as my parents' when I went back over there later.  Had to clean off the car as well.  Lots of work over two days and I felt somewhat worn after that and everything else.

I shoveled my drive before the snow plow came by.  When it came by, it left a berm of snow in front of my drive like it always does.  Since my drive proper was still pretty good and I had to clean off my car at that point, I forgot about the plow berm as I backed out and went right through it.  I didn't notice right away as I drove off, but this must've broke my exhaust, for I noticed during the drive that it was loud.  I haven't dealt with that issue yet and am driving with a loud exhaust.  Should be able to get it fixed for the third time now at Market Muffler for $70-80, which isn't bad as car things go, but still annoying.

A lot for a 4-5 day period.
