---
categories: [toby]
date: 2026-01-25T23:26:09-05:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4751'
id: 4751
modified: 2026-01-25T23:26:26-05:00
name: '4751'
tags: [snow, weather]
---

Lots of snow today.  I went to take Duncan for a walk at the park, but they were closed, with the lots blocked off.<!--more-->  I tried three lots at the CVNP Boston Mills trailhead.  I tried the tree farm trail.  After that, I figured it wasn't worth trying any others, especially since the roads weren't great.  So I took him back to the house and went for a "walk" around there.  The snow in the yard was tall enough that he had to bound through it.  He pooped and peed and then wanted to go inside.

Roads weren't icy but had a solid layer of snow almost everywhere except some patchy open spots on the well cared for hills.  I wasn't planning on it, but ended up going up and then back down Boston Mills Rd, which was the worst of today's roads that I was on.  I did slip a bit and had my ABS / traction control activate, but was fine.

I did some clean up shoveling at my parents house.  They have a snow blower so that did the bulk of the work.  When I got home, I had to do more shoveling.  Much more.  The plow had put a few feet tall berm in front of my drive, which I had to remove to get in.  My drive itself was probably a foot deep, so I just cleared out a spot big enough to get my car off the road, then cleared walkways.  Tiring.  I'm sure I'll be feeling it in my back and knees for a while.

It snowed basically all day and looked quite pleasant, other than the shoveling and driving and galumphing through with Duncan.

I think more is coming overnight but it doesn't sound like nearly as much, so hopefully the roads will be cleared by then.
