---
categories: [toby]
date: 2025-07-30T00:30:50-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4619'
id: 4619
modified: 2025-07-30T00:30:50-04:00
name: '4619'
tags: [baseball, food, guardians, sports]
---

I went to a Guardians game last night with my brother, sort of.  It got rain delayed and we left and ate at a Japanese noodle place instead.<!--more-->  When I left Akron, there was no rain and sun was shining, though there were clouds.  To the north were some grey ones, but not real dark.  But as I got halfway there it started drizzling.  In spite of the heat, I decided to take my rain jacket.  I met up with my brother and we walked on to the stadium.  As I walked I switched between wearing the jacket and not, as it was hot wearing it and the rain was fluctuating.

When we got in the stadium, there was enough rain that we didn't want to sit in the uncovered seats.  No one was.  We went up to this indoor area he knew of with some tables, but the area was packed.  We went up to the upper deck seating areas and finally found one where (mostly) covered seating was available.  We sat for a while, looked at the weather forecast.  Radar was showing rain clearing almost two hours after the game was supposed to start.  After some time, we made the decision that we didn't want to wait that long.

I was hungry, so rather than pay stadium prices, we decided to go to a restaurant downtown.  He had wanted to try a pizza place called Good Pizza.  Since I had been considering stadium pizza, that sounded good.  We walked over there.  It was closed on Mondays.  So we spent some time thinking of where else to go to.  We eventually settled on a Japanese noodle place that neither of us had gone to before.  I had planned on having a chicken dish, but they didn't have a lot of options.  I eventually settled on chicken yakisoba.  My brother had a pork ramen dish.  They were good, but took a long time to get to us.

We walked by Playhouse Square and back to our cars.  I paid my $7 parking fee and we headed home.

They did go on to play, but I think we made the right call in leaving.  It was two and a half hour delay, and the game went past midnight, when they frustratingly lost to the worst team in the majors.  My brother had been up in Cleveland since 9 that morning for work, and that would've been a really long day for him, especially since his normal schedule has him waking at 3AM.
