---
categories: [toby]
date: 2026-04-01T23:54:35-04:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=4804'
id: 4804
image: 2026/04/river2604.jpg
image_alt: 'Very full Cuyahoga River, brown with dirt, swirling, high on banks'
modified: 2026-04-01T23:54:35-04:00
name: '4804'
tags: [flood, rain, weather]
---

We got quite a bit of rain the last couple days.  I went by the Cuyahoga River today and it was really flowing.  There was also lots of ponding all over the place, in yards in in the park.<!--more-->

Some of it was up near the road on the route to my parents, and I told my dad if it keeps up I might have to take a detour going home.  On the way home, I made it much of the way along Riverview with no puddles or anything, including one area I thought might be bad.  I was just starting to feel silly for thinking it might flood there, when, as I was approaching one stretch, I saw rows of flares on both sides of the road, like a runway.  They stopped and then continued on after a gap, maybe 50 feet long.  In that gap, water was going all the way across the road.  I wasn't sure how deep it was, but the car ahead of me had gone through, so I did too.  I went slow to make sure I didn't get too deep, and I don't think it ever got more than the ford on Sand Run Parkway gets, though much wider and much less flow.  I made it through and made it home.

No real ponding in my yard or my parents'.  My dad has done some regrading and other work on their yard after problems in the past, and it seems to drain well now.

It looks like more rain is coming, but it doesn't look like nearly as much, so hopefully the ponds can drain away.
