---
categories: [toby]
date: 2019-07-01T01:26:43-04:00
date_gmt: 2019-07-01T05:26:43+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=2406'
id: 2406
modified: 2019-07-01T01:28:04-04:00
modified_gmt: 2019-07-01T05:28:04+00:00
name: '2406'
tags: [books, rain, store]
---

I discovered a used book store fairly close to my house this weekend.<!--more-->  And they had a 50% off sale.  And they're closing their store front pretty soon to focus on online sales.  So, I kinda wish I had discovered them sooner.

They're called [The Bookseller Inc.](https://www.thebooksellerinc.com/).  They had a large selection of books for the small area they occupy.  I spent a few hours looking through, picking 10 that came to about $20, yet not finding the three specific books I was looking for.  The owner ladies complimented my finds.

There was a downpour that started and stopped, then started again just before I left.  The ladies double-bagged my books for rain protection and I went out, my books well protected, but me getting a healthy coating of wet.  The rain had mostly stopped by the time I got home.

I had been looking for a good used book store for a little while, so it was exciting to find one so close, then disappointing to find it was closing.

The ten books I picked, and why, were:

- *The Hunger Games* by Suzanne Collins: I liked the movies and *Battle Royal*
- *Damia* by Anne McCaffrey: I liked her dragon-riders books
- *The Constant Gardener* by John Le Carré: I liked the movie
- *Ivanhoe* by Sir Walter Scott: by a classic author I have not read
- *Stranger in a Strange Land* by Robert Heinlein: classic sci-fi author I've only read one book of (*Starship Troopers*) and liked
- *The Mark of Zorro* by Johnston McCulley: saw the movies, seems like a classic
- *The Girl in the Spider's Web* by David Lagercrantz: about a hacker and I've heard of *The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo* before
- *Emma* by Jane Austen: classic author I haven't read
- *The Complete Home Carpenter*, edited by George Daniels: I want to build some furniture for my house
- *Interior Design: Theory and Process* by Anthony Sully: I want to make some decisions about my house's interior design, am interested in general design concepts to apply to the web, and this book looks theory heavy
