---
categories: [toby]
date: 2022-08-06T22:02:59-04:00
date_gmt: 2022-08-07T02:02:59+00:00
guid: 'https://www.tobymackenzie.com/blog/?p=3790'
id: 3790
modified: 2022-08-06T22:03:50-04:00
modified_gmt: 2022-08-07T02:03:50+00:00
name: '3790'
tags: [blossom, classical, concert, event, music, orchestra, performance]
---

I went to my first Cleveland Orchestra concert at Blossom since the pandemic.<!--more-->  The family went and had a picnic beforehand.  Tiffany made pulled chicken for dinner and rice crispy treats for dessert.  My mom made a cucumber salad and brought corn bread.  I brought chips for appetizer and chocolate covered almonds, licorice, and cookies for dessert, all bought from Whole Foods.  It was tasty.  It was a little hot sitting at the picnic table, but a slight breeze helped sometimes.

My parents sat in the pavilion while the rest of us sat on the lawn.  I brought both a blanket and a chair.  The chair was a bit too tilted forward on the hill, so I didn't sit on it too long.

The first half of the concert was Grieg's Piano Concerto in A Minor.  It was good.  The piano was fast and exciting at times.  I recognized the piece.  Afterward, though, I realized I had heard it from Electric Light Orchestra playing it on their Flashback compilation, which I have listened to many times.  I may have also heard it elsewhere, but mostly there.

Due to continued clapping, the pianist came back out and played a solo piece, which was also interesting, though I don't remember it.

The second half was Schmidt's Symphony #4 in C major.  This was less interesting than the piano concerto, but still good, and a journey.  Some of the parts I felt like I might recognize, especially the solo horn parts in the fourth movement.

Leaving, there was a fair amount of traffic, but it was continuously flowing, luckily.

Overall a good night.
